The governing body has approved my addressing something that Jesus Himself spoke of on a number
of occasions.
And I might say at the outset, this is by no means a pessimistic speech meant to discourage
anyone.
It is a realistic discussion that we all need to be prepared for.
The topic is persecution.
It can come in many forms, some are very subtle means to discourage a servant of God.
Others are more direct forms of opposition, but not unexpected.
The Apostle Paul, in the first century CE, describes certain men who oppose the early
Christian congregation.
He reminded loyal followers of Jesus about the persecutions and sufferings he experienced
in multiple cities.
His follow-up words in 2 Timothy 312 are the theme for this material.
Here Paul shows that persecution would not be the experience of just a select few.
He said in 2 Timothy 312, in fact, all, yes, all, those designed to live with godly
devotion and association with Christ Jesus, will also be persecuted.
While we don't want to become unduly disturbed about what we might or might not face in
the future, at the same time, we don't want to be unprepared when opposition suddenly
rears its ugly head.
Jesus openly discussed the possibility of persecution with his disciples.
One classic example of that is found at John 15, 20, and 21.
If you have your Bible at hand, please open to John 15, 20, and 21.
He said, keep in mind the word I said to you, a slave is not greater than his master.
If they have persecuted me, they will also persecute you.
If they have observed my word, they will also observe yours.
But they will do all these things against you on account of my name because they do not
know the one who sent me.
It's difficult to misconstrue those words, isn't it?
Jesus said, persecution is going to happen, therefore we need to be prepared.
What are some forms of persecution we might expect?
As mentioned, it could be subtle forms such as negative talk about our beliefs or sarcastic
comments by schoolmates or workmates.
However, Jesus himself itemized more alt-right forms of persecution at Luke 21, 12 through 19.
Find Luke 21, 12 through 19.
We might mention that here, Jesus was not referring to what would happen back then in the
first century.
This was a prophecy about the future.
He was describing what would transpire now before the end of the evil system under Satan's
control.
So we expect to see an increase in such malicious opposition.
It is in that context that Jesus warns us of four different kinds of persecution originating
from various sources.
Luke 21, starting in verse 12.
But before all these things happen, people will lay their hands on you and persecute you,
handing you over to the synagogues and prisons.
You'll be brought before kings and governors for the sake of my name.
Now, skip down to verses 16 and 17.
Moreover you'll be handed over, even by parents and brothers and relatives and friends, and
they'll put some of you to death.
And you'll be hated by all people because of my name.
Family persecution is sometimes the most heart-wrenching because of natural familial ties that
exist.
But did you notice, in verse 12, Jesus said some would be handed over to prisons?
That has been the situation for many of our brothers in pre-Christian and Christian times.
For example, in the April broadcasting program, brother Sanderson reviewed the situation
faced by our young brothers in Korea.
The RN and out of prison because of their neutral stand.
What marvelous examples for any of us who come face-to-face with the same treatment because
of changing religious or political wins.
We came across an archive video of another faithful brother who endured four and a half
years in prison in China.
This is an interview from the past with brother Harold King.
I saw a policeman coming into the lane and they were, as if they were facing a machine-gun
attack or something.
They were creeping along the wall on the other side and running up into the lane.
And so I said, Stanley, someone's going to get picked up this morning.
Now, look at the police are in the lane because we've been seeing this quite often.
They were picking up people all over the city.
So what we did, we were just going to get on with our breakfast anyway when bang, bang,
bang on our back door.
And I said, Stanley, it's us.
They're after us this morning.
But we couldn't.
They couldn't find anything.
They did take the files because we'd hidden nothing.
And the thing is, we didn't have to worry too much because they had to spy in the congregation.
They gave them all the information they wanted before they came and arrested us.
That fellow was originally my Bible study when he was a university student.
I thought what a dirty little rotter that fellow has turned out to be.
And I looked straight at his face and he wouldn't look at mine.
He hung his head.
He said, what do you know this man?
And he said, yes, he was my teacher.
What did he teach you?
He taught me that the Chinese people's government was of the devil and that it was going to be destroyed.
And all who supported would be destroyed along with it.
He said to me, is that what you taught him?
I said, well, I'd like to qualify that.
I sat there on the floor. I had no bed.
I had no chair. I'd only got a concrete floor.
I'd got a room four and a half by nine.
And all I was in the corner was a bucket like that.
I wouldn't bucket it that with the bands around it.
That was my restroom.
And the situation was full, the cell was full of ermine.
They got bugs, bedbugs crawling in there and I was bitten all over.
I hadn't had any food since that breakfast and here it was now I wasn't going to get any of that night.
I used my time in the cell.
I wasn't going to sit there on the floor full of self-pity.
I was going to go preaching.
If they wouldn't let me do anything, I could do something.
I could practice my presentations.
So each corner of the cell became a door.
And I would start off and go to this door and witness.
And I made it quite real from experiences that I had.
Not every corner was interested.
This one was very interested and this one turned out to be a return visit and a Bible study.
And I got a Bible study going, I didn't turn in a field service report.
But it kept my mind on the scriptures.
And I had no other way of doing that.
I could have compromised.
They told me, you see, they wouldn't let me cut my hair.
They wouldn't let me shave.
They wouldn't let me pair my nails.
And I couldn't get proper exercise.
And they kept saying, if you will only confess to your spies,
no, I would, that would be betrayal.
And that was the last thing I wanted to do.
I had a lovely relationship with Jehovah God.
I loved him very dearly.
He was real.
He wasn't fictitious.
And the whole organization, the angels,
and all the fine work of Paul, James, Peter, John,
the earnestness for which they kept the work going,
it was my privilege to do that now.
And they were my examples and I followed them.
So never at any time did I think of trying to find an easy way out.
Well, I prayed to Jehovah then and I said,
Jehovah, I want to be able to celebrate the memory
with my brothers outside.
So could I see the moon on that night?
And if it wasn't the full moon, I don't, don't let me see it.
Well, there were cloudy nights and there were bright nights.
But this particular night on that first nice and 14,
there wasn't a question about it.
It seemed almost as if Jehovah had polished up that moon.
And then I gave the memorial talk to an imaginary kingdom
awful of brothers.
And I gave it through when I came to the point of passing the emblems.
I would just ask Jehovah's blessing on the bread.
And I'd pick up the saucer and make a pretence
of passing it around and bringing it back
and making a pretence of taking a piece of myself.
And then I'd put it down and I would ask
Jehovah's blessing on the cup and do the same with my normal mug
and send it and then come back and make the pretence
of drinking it and prayed Jehovah would accept that.
I don't like the word depress because I never was depressed.
But there were days when I felt things could go a little better
than they were going.
So I thought something like this.
Oh, come all you slaves of Jehovah
on high who've given your heart to your God.
Out to the work you've been given to do
in the footsteps that Jesus Christ brought.
And then that song came.
And I used to get better.
And a very fact of singing that song lifted me up out
of the loose bell.
I was exalted.
I was exhilarated in realizing that just
across the other side of the bridge
for the British consulate general with my passport.
And outside there were team of brothers
that had come up to meet me from the branch.
And I would be with him again.
I was emotionally almost weeping with the joy
of being among them again.
We just got bare hugs all around.
And they were so happy.
And all the way home, they were asking questions how it was.
And I was able to talk to them.
And by the time I did get down there,
I was getting a bit horse because I'd been talking.
And I was so sort of wound up time being free again.
And I was taking everything in as I went along.
And I realized the beauty of Hong Kong at that time
and the work that was being done there.
Faith is based on accurate knowledge.
And the only accurate knowledge available regarding
the purpose of creation is that contained in the Bible.
So it is a case.
I would say a new one.
Now I'm telling the brothers everywhere,
get that Bible off its sprinted page
and get it into your heart.
And then you got it.
And it's a living word.
And it will keep you strong in the faith.
Where else can you go?
There's, look at the world of state that it's in today.
There's no haven anywhere in this world.
But there's a wonderful haven among your hopeless people.
Brother King endured the persecution.
He was later released.
And since his death in January of 1993, we are confident.
He is ruling as a king with Jesus in heaven.
Was his endurance worth the sacrifice?
Absolutely.
What is another form of persecution
that Jesus specifically mentioned?
At Matthew 5.11 he said that people will persecute you
and lyingly say every sort of wicked thing
against you for my sake.
Lies are particularly hurtful because they
misrepresent the true nature of a person or organization.
They're often started with malicious intent.
But then they might be picked up by the news media
and published as if factual.
When in reality many of the facts never come to light.
Jesus indicated that no matter what his followers did,
they would be criticized and misrepresented
by people who speak untruths.
As an example, at Matthew 11.18 he said of John the Baptist,
he came neither eating nor drinking,
but people say he has a demon.
Then in the next verse, Matthew 11.19,
Jesus commented on his own very different approach
to the basics of life.
Jesus did not follow the strict dietary restrictions of John.
Jesus was also known to drink wine and moderation.
The opposite approach of John who was criticized for his behavior,
what lying accusations did Jesus have to face?
Matthew 11.19 says, the son of man did come eating and drinking,
but people say, look, a man who is a glutton
and is given to drinking wine, a friend of tax collectors
and sinners.
As in the first century, we are criticized by some,
no matter what we do, but notice the significant comment
of Jesus at the end of that verse.
He said, all the same, wisdom is proved righteous
by its works.
In other words, people in general can usually see
right through the exaggerated stories and outright lies.
They know our good motives and good works
and our true reputation remains intact.
While we may take advantage of legal means
to set the record straight in harmony with Jesus' words,
we do not engage in smear campaigns with rebuttals
either verbally or in print.
Instead, we continue to go about our peaceful work
for the good of humanity.
This includes sharing the Bible's message with all people
helping them to better their lives spiritually and morally.
We translate that message in some 700 languages,
some of which we've never even heard of before.
We go to great lengths to help the blind and the deaf
with publications they can comprehend,
even though these are produced at significant cost.
In fact, we produce video publications
in some 80 different sign languages.
Jesus was right.
Wisdom is proved righteous by its works.
But what are some of the erroneous ideas
that are seized upon and at times publicized by the media?
Some municipalities misinterpret our intent
and spread lies about the nature of our public ministry.
Commendably, however, in many lands
the law supports our freedom of speech and worship
and our persistence is actually set a precedent
for others to enjoy similar freedoms.
At times, lies are spread about our view
of medical intervention when sick.
For example, reports are circulated
that we let our children die
rather than seeking medical help for them.
Nothing could be further from the truth.
Instead, an isolated incident is blown out of proportion
than emotion and drama are added as fuel
and then this is fed to the press.
The impression circulated is so inaccurate
that it could only be labeled a bold face lie.
We want the best possible medical care for our children.
Of course, we leave it up to the parents
to determine what type of treatment
will best care for their child's health condition.
As we've just discussed, persecution can come in many forms.
We do not need to try to imagine the various forms
that it might take in the future.
However, to cope successfully with whatever might come
our way, we need to be aware of the possibility.
That is what our program is highlighting this month.
We are grateful that Jehovah has forewarned us in his word
and that Jesus made such pointed observations on the subject.
Please locate with me Isaiah 28 verse 16.
The Apostle Peter, first Peter 2, 6 under inspiration,
made clear that this ancient prophecy pointed forward
to Jesus who had become the cornerstone
and foundation of the Christian congregation.
If we exercise full faith in Jesus, what will be our attitude
and resolve regarding future opposition,
read with me Isaiah 28 16.
Therefore, this is what the sovereign, Lord Jehovah says.
Here I am laying as a foundation and Zion attested stone,
the precious cornerstone of a sure foundation.
No one exercising faith will panic.
How are you sure?
Jesus is a solid foundation giving us stability,
no matter what we might face now or in the future.
There is no need to panic.
In fact, when considering the secure solid foundation
of the Christ, please note the strength we derive
from his example as said fourth in Ephesians 3, 16 through 21.
Even if we are timid by nature, these verses make clear
that we can be made mighty in the person we are inside.
How?
By having the Christ dwell in our hearts.
Notice how beautifully this inspired point
has made it Ephesians chapter 3, starting in verse 16.
I pray that He may grant you through the abundance of His glory
to be made mighty in the man you are inside with power
through His Spirit, and that through your faith,
you may have the Christ dwell in your hearts with love.
And what kind of stability will embedding Jesus' disposition
into our heart, providers?
That verse continues, may you be rooted
and established on the foundation in order that
with all the holy ones, you may be thoroughly able
to comprehend fully what is the breadth and length
and height and depth.
Our spiritual peripheral vision will be enhanced.
We will comprehend more fully our circumstances.
Better than we could have had we relied simply
on our own imperfect perspective.
And what about being able to endure any persecution
that comes our way?
We absolutely can, but not by our own strength.
Read with me now verses 20 and 21.
Now to the one who can, according to his power
that is operating in us, do more than super abundantly
beyond all the things we ask or conceive.
To him be the glory by means of the congregation
and by means of Christ Jesus, 12 generations forever
and ever, amen.
We echo, amen to those insightful and strengthening words
from our God.
For him to do super abundantly beyond what we need
is special indeed.
But did you notice it said he will do more than super abundantly
beyond all the things we ask?
And that is why ordinary people very much like you
and I have endured extraordinary opposition
and have come through on Jehovah's side of the issue.
For all of you integrity keepers to Jehovah be the glory
by means of Christ Jesus to all generations forever
and ever, amen.